docs(installation+update): incorporate Liquibase support (#1034)
camunda/camunda-docs-manual: content/installation/database-schema.md

* Use the provided SQL scripts with the tools related to your database for a fully manual installation and update. A manual procedure allows you to fully control the SQL statements that are executed on your database instance and to adjust those statements to your needs if necessary.

{{< note title="Isolation level" class="info" >}}
READ COMMITED is the required isolation level for database systems to run Camunda Platform with. 
You may have to change the default setting on your database when installing Camunda. 
For more information see the documentation on [isolation levels]({{< ref "/user-guide/process-engine/database/database-configuration.md#isolation-level-configuration" >}}).
{{< /note >}}

# Installation

You can either install your database schema using Liquibase or using the provided SQL scripts manually. You can switch between those mechanisms when updating your Camunda Platform version at a later stage if desired.
However, this might come with additional preparation work to work reliably. 
The [update](#update) paragraph provides more details on this topic.

## Liquibase installation

> Camunda Platform comes with a maintained changelog file that can be consumed by Liquibase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Camunda Platform comes with a maintained changelog file that Liquibase can consume.
```

Open the `camunda-sql-scripts-$PLATFORM_VERSION/liquibase` folder to find the changelog. 
In case you are using a [pre-packaged distribution], the Liquibase resources already reside in the `sql/liquibase` folder of the distribution.

The `liquibase` folder contains the following resources:

* `camunda-changelog.xml`
* `baseline` directory

Liquibases uses these resources in combination with the scripts in the `upgrade` folder next to the `liquibase` folder to install the schema.

Perform the following steps to install the database schema on your database instance:

1. Setup Liquibase, e.g. by [downloading Liquibase CLI](https://www.liquibase.org/download)
1. Run Liquibase's [update command](https://docs.liquibase.com/commands/community/update.html) referencing the `camunda-changelog.xml`.
You can pass on the connection details to your database instance via parameters as described in the Liquibase documentation or [create a properties file](https://docs.liquibase.com/workflows/liquibase-community/creating-config-properties.html).

Liquibase creates two additional tables to keep track of the changes that have been applied to your database.

> The `DATABASECHANGELOG` table keeps track of all applied changes, the `DATABASECHANGELOGLOCK` table prevents conflicts from concurrent updates on your database instance by multiple Liquibase instances. You can read more about it in the [Liquibase guide](https://www.liquibase.org/get-started/how-liquibase-works).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `DATABASECHANGELOG` table keeps track of all applied changes. The `DATABASECHANGELOGLOCK` table prevents conflicts from concurrent updates on your database instance by multiple Liquibase instances. You can read more about it in the [Liquibase guide](https://www.liquibase.org/get-started/how-liquibase-works).
```

The `create` folder contains the following SQL scripts:

* `$DATABASENAME_engine_$PLATFORM_VERSION.sql`
* `$DATABASENAME_identity_$PLATFORM_VERSION.sql`

There are individual SQL scripts for each supported database (`$DATABASENAME`).
Select the appropriate scripts for your database and run them with your database administration tool (e.g., SqlDeveloper for Oracle).

As you create the tables manually, you have to configure the engine to **not** create tables at startup as well.
Set the `databaseSchemaUpdate` property to `false` (or, in case you are using Oracle, to `noop`).
Consult the [manual installation guide]({{< ref "/installation/full/_index.md" >}}) of your distribution for further information on how to achieve that.

{{< note title="Heads Up!" class="info" >}}
If you have defined a specific prefix for the entities of your database, you will have to manually adjust the `create` scripts accordingly so that the tables are created with the prefix.
{{< /note >}}

# Update

Updating to a newer Camunda Platform minor version also requires a database schema update. You can reuse all the options available for a [schema installation](#installation) here as well.

> In case you are switching from one option to another, you might however need to perform additional preparation work to reliably update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are switching from one option to another, you might need to perform additional preparation work to update reliably.
```

The individual sections on the mechanisms will provide details if necessary.

In case you are just updating to a newer patch level of your Camunda Platform installation, a schema update might not be necessary.
Section [patch level update](#patch-level-update) provides details on how this can be achieved depending on the mechanism you want to apply.

## Liquibase update

This section assumes you are already set up with Liquibase as described in the [installation section](#liquibase-installation).
In case you have not set up Liquibase itself yet and want to update a database that you [manually installed](#manual-installation) and updated until now, please consult the [migration section](#migrate-to-liquibase) first.

> Camunda Platform comes with a maintained changelog file that can be consumed by Liquibase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Camunda Platform comes with a maintained changelog file that Liquibase can consume.
```

1. Run Liquibase's [update command](https://docs.liquibase.com/commands/community/update.html) referencing the new `camunda-changelog.xml` of version `$Y`.
Liquibase takes care of determining the necessary changes and applying them to your database according to the new changelog.
You can pass on the connection details to your database instance via parameters as described in the Liquibase documentation or [create a properties file](https://docs.liquibase.com/workflows/liquibase-community/creating-config-properties.html).
1. We highly recommend updating to the latest patch version that is within the bounds of the new minor version you are updating to (`$Y`).

    _Attention_: This step is only relevant when you are using an enterprise version of the Camunda Platform, e.g., `7.16.X` where `X > 0`.

{{< note title="Do I need to apply every minor version if I missed a few?" class="warning" >}}
Liquibase takes care of determining which upgrade scripts to apply automatically according to the changelog of your target version (`$Y`).
{{< /note >}}

{{< note title="Dry run" class="info" >}}

> Liquibase provides additional commands to preview all changes that will be applied by commands that execute SQL statements on a database. For the `update` command, you can execute the [updateSql](https://docs.liquibase.com/commands/community/updatesql.html) command. This will let you inspect all statements that Liquibase will issue on your database without actually executing them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Liquibase provides additional commands to preview all changes applied by commands that execute SQL statements on a database. For the `update` command, you can execute the [updateSql](https://docs.liquibase.com/commands/community/updatesql.html) command to inspect all statements that Liquibase will issue on your database without actually executing them.
```

You have migrated your manual installation to Liquibase.

## Manual update

Updating from your current minor version (`$X`) to its follow-up version (`$Y`) requires updating the database schema as well. 
Follow the outlined procedure to perform this update:

1. Check for [available database patch scripts](#patch-level-update") for your database that are within the bounds of your update path.
You can find the scripts on our [Nexus].
Select the respective version you want to update to (`$Y`) and download the scripts as a `zip` or `tar.gz` file.
Open the `camunda-sql-scripts-$Y/upgrade` folder to find all available scripts. 
In case you are using a [pre-packaged distribution], the SQL scripts already reside in the `sql/upgrade` folder of the distribution with version `$Y`.
We highly recommend executing these patches before updating.
Execute those related to your database type (`$DATABASENAME`) in ascending order by version number.
The naming pattern is `$DATABASENAME_engine_$X_patch_*.sql`.

1. Execute the corresponding update scripts named `$DATABASENAME_engine_$X_to_$Y.sql`.

> The scripts update the database from one minor version to the next, and change the underlying database structure. So make sure to backup your database in case there are any failures during the update process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scripts update the database from one minor version to the next and change the underlying database structure. So make sure to backup your database in case there are any failures during the update process.
```

Author: Do we really add a comma here? I learned it like "An Oxford Comma is a comma used before the last list item in a list of three or more items.". But we only have two here and I am not sure it helps the reader much to add it here. What do you think?

Reviewer: That's why I removed the comma ;)

Author: Hahahahahaha, yeah, now I get the change 🤣 👍

1. We highly recommend checking for any existing patch scripts for your database that are within the bounds of the new minor version you are updating to (`$Y`). Execute them in ascending order by version number. The procedure is the same as in step 1, only for the new minor version.

    _Attention_: This step is only relevant when you are using an enterprise version of the Camunda Platform, e.g., `7.16.X` where `X > 0`.

{{< note title="Do I need to apply every minor version if I missed a few?" class="warning" >}}

> If you need to apply multiple minor versions you MUST execute the database alteration scripts in minor version order as they are NOT cumulative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to apply multiple minor versions, you MUST execute the database alteration scripts in minor version order as they are NOT cumulative.
```

{{< /note >}}

## Patch level update

This section explains how to perform a [patch-level update]({{< ref "/update/patch-level.md" >}}) for your database schema. The *patch level* is the version number "after the second dot". For example, update from `7.14.2` to `7.14.3`.

{{< enterprise >}}

> Please note that Patch Level Updates are only provided to enterprise customers, they are not available in the community edition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that Patch Level Updates are only provided to enterprise customers. They are not available in the community edition.
```

      <td>engine_7.13_patch_7.13.4_to_7.13.5_2.sql</td>
      <td>Add support for Optimize 3.2.
      <strong>This is the same patch as engine_7.12_patch_7.12.10_to_7.12.11.sql.</strong>
      </td>
      <td>All databases</td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://jira.camunda.com/browse/CAM-12383">CAM-12383</a>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>7.13</td>
      <td>engine_7.13_patch_7.13.5_to_7.13.6.sql</td>
      <td>Introducing new engine lock properties
      <strong>This is the same patch as engine_7.12_patch_7.12.11_to_7.12.12.sql.</strong>
      </td>
      <td>All databases</td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://jira.camunda.com/browse/CAM-12590">CAM-12590</a>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>7.14</td>
      <td>engine_7.14_patch_7.14.2_to_7.14.3.sql</td>
      <td>Re-define ACT_IDX_JOB_HANDLER index to make it work with <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/18/spuss/enabling-the-new-extended-data-type-capability.html">extended data types</a> on Oracle.</td>
      <td>Oracle</td>
      <td><a href="https://jira.camunda.com/browse/CAM-12832">CAM-12832</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Liquibase patch level update

> Camunda Platform comes with a maintained changelog file that can be consumed by Liquibase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Camunda Platform comes with a maintained changelog file that Liquibase can consume.
```

This changelog helps Liquibase to keep track of the changes that have been made to your database already.

> Based on that changelog and the tracking tables, Liquibase determines which changes it needs to apply when you instruct it to update your schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on that changelog and the tracking tables, Liquibase determines which changes it needs to apply when instructing it to update your schema.
```

> Therefore, the procedure for patch level updates is equivalent to that for [minor version updates](#liquibase-update).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, the update procedure for patch levels is equivalent to that for [minor version updates](#liquibase-update).
```

Author: We use the term "patch-level update" in some places, so I'd like to keep it here as well. I actually missed to add a hyphen here 😁

Author: ```suggestion
Therefore, the procedure for patch-level updates is equivalent to that for [minor version updates](#liquibase-update).
```

Reviewer: Completely fine for me :)

### Manual patch level update

You can find the necessary scripts on our [Nexus].
Select the respective patch version you want to update to (`$Y`) and download the scripts as a `zip` or `tar.gz` file.
Open the `camunda-sql-scripts-$Y/upgrade` folder to find all available patch scripts.
In case you are using a [pre-packaged distribution], the SQL scripts reside in the `sql/upgrade` folder of the distribution you want to update to.

> The patch scripts are named `$DATABASENAME_engine_$MINOR_patch_$A_to_$B`, with `$A` being the patch level version to update from, `$B` the patch level to update to, and `$MINOR` the minor version they are on, e.g. `7.16`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The patch scripts are named `$DATABASENAME_engine_$MINOR_patch_$A_to_$B`, with `$A` being the patch level version to update from, `$B` the patch level to update to, and `$MINOR` the minor version they are on, e.g., `7.16`.
```
